3D-animation
------------------------------------------------


The most impressing feature of the NLI is the ability to show a 3D-animation 
of the planets movement. But to get a proper animation you will have to do 
a small set-up which can be done in this window.

The 3D-animation window consists of 5 submenus, 3 buttons and one 
“check box”, that enables the users to decide if he wants to see the 
animation in full screen mode or not. With the first submenu that is 
labelled “mode” you can select the mode. It will be done automatically when 
you select a file with the first of the 3 buttons. The button on the right 
edge closes the window, while by clicking on the button in the middle the 
animation will start. There is another submenu that is labelled 
“time interval” and contains 3 “text edits”. Into the first 2 of them you 
can enter the time interval you want to get displayed in the animation. The 
other “text edit” has been placed there to enter the conversion factor for 
real time and simulation time. The submenu below is titled with 
“use rotating coordinate system” and consists of a “check box” and a 
“combo box”. With the “check box” you can enable this feature and with the 
“combo box” you can select the object which shall be stable in the rotating 
coordinate system. This feature is very useful to display horseshoe orbits, 
Trojans and orbits of exchange planets. The submenu in upper right part is 
called “colouration”. In it there are 3 “radio buttons”, 3 “shapes”, 2 
“spin edits” and a button to edit the colour palette. You can chose between 
the standard colouration, a colouration for object types and the colour 
palette by clicking on the “radio buttons”. The first mode uses a predefined 
list of colours that resembles the colours of the object in our system 
sorted by semi-major axis. The second mode paints objects up to a certain 
index with one colour and then up to another index with another colour and 
the rest with a third colour. You can set the border indexes with the two 
“spin edits”. The three colours can be change by clicking on the “shapes”. 
Finally the last mode uses the colours from the colour palette. The last 
submenu is labelled with “visible objects” and in it there are 3 
“list boxes”, 8 buttons and one “text edit”. After you have selected a file 
a list of all objects of it will appear in the most left “list box”. Those 
objects you intend to see in the animation must be moved into the second 
“list box” with the 4 arrow buttons. The third “list box” contains the radii 
of the visible objects in Jupiter Radii. You can add a radius by entering a 
value into the “text edit” and clicking the “add”-button. With the next 
button you can remove an item from the radii-“list box”. Because the 
uppermost radius in the “list box” is assorted with the first object in the 
“list box” that is labelled with “visible objects” I’ve created two more 
buttons to change the order of the radii list. Note that the initial value in 
the “text edit” is the radius of our Sun in Jupiter Radii. 
