3D-window
---------------------------------------------


After you’ve clicked on the “start”-button in the 3D-animation window the 
3D-window will appear. The 3D-animation here are mainly calculated on the 
computer graphic card and uses OpenGL, because it’s better implemented 
into the program language and there are many units (would be called classes 
in C) online. These facts make it comparable easy to develop a 3D-surface 
in Delphi. Despite so many different units I made the 3D animation quiet 
simple: all objects (stars, planets and asteroids) are spheres (or points). 
You can “fly” around by pressing some keys on the keyboard and I’ve only 
implemented one light source on the position of the host star. I’ve also 
developed a possibility to capture a video from the screen while watching 
the simulation, because else this feature would be just fun.

This window has a height of 600 pixels and a width 800 pixels, but 100 
pixels in height are lost for the control panel. So we have a resolution for 
the 3D-graphic of 800x500 pixels. Let’s have a look on the control panel 
first: It contains 4 submenus. The first one is titled “camera” and contains 
3 “labels”. The coordinates (in AU and the origin is the host star) are 
written on the uppermost “label”. Furthermore you can see the angle of view 
in the second “label” and the zoom factor in the last one. The second submenu 
is labelled “imaging” and contains 3 “labels” too. The first one gives you 
the recent frame rate in frames per second. The next “label” contains the 
number ob visible objects and the last one shows if the background stars are 
enabled. The next submenu, which also contains 3 “labels”, is called “time”. 
The uppermost “label” gives us the recent time in the simulation. The “label” 
below shows us the time interval for this simulation and on the last one you 
can read the recent conversion rate of real time and simulation time. The 
last submenu is different and it contains one button and two “labels”. If 
you click on the button a menu will appear that asks you where to save the 
video. After this another menu will become visible and there you can make some 
settings for the .avi-video. Then the program will start recording at the 
current FPS-rate visible in the right “label” and the number of frames that 
has been recorded yet are written into the other “label”. The process can be 
stopped by clicking on the button again. Although I’ve explained all visible 
features of this window a questions remains: “How can I fly around there?” 
This is controlled by the keyboard and the mouse. You can move at two 
different speeds in 6 directions and rotate around 3 angles. Furthermore 
you can control the time and recording of the video also by keyboard. The next 
table will give you a list of the shortcuts in this window:

key / mouse move				action
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Click right mouse button and move up/down	moves view angle up and down
Click right mouse button and move left/right	moves view angle left and right
Q						rotates counter-clockwise
W						rotates clockwise
arrow up					moves camera forwards
arrow down					moves camera backwards
arrow left					moves camera left
arrow right					moves camera right
page up						moves camera upwards
page down					moves camera downwards
Shift						goes to higher speed while pressed
H						stops time
R						reverses time
F						increases time rate (faster)
S						decreases time rate (slower)
B						enables/disables background stars
I						zooms in
O						zooms out
M						starts/stops capturing a movie
X						increases FPS-rate for movie
Y						decreases FPS-rate for movie
Esc						closes window
