diagramms
---------------------------------------------


Results are usually display in diagrams and so I’ve decided to equip the 
program with a tool that can create line diagrams out of a result file. 
You can chose if you like to open a single “normal file” or a “scan file”. 
This tool creates a saveable diagram with labelled axis.

The diagram window consists of a submenu that changes its appearance due 
to the selected result file type. In addition you can find there 6 buttons 
and a “paint box”. You can select a normal result file with the button 
“select normal file”, but you can also work with a scan file by clicking 
the button “select scan file”. The third button opens the colour palette 
window. You able to draw a diagram by clicking the next button that is 
labelled “draw diagram”. The button “save graphic” saves the diagram in 
the “paint box” as a bitmap. To close this window you can use the button 
“close”. Let’s have a view on the submenu in case you’ve chosen a normal 
file. It consists of 2 “list boxes”, 4 “text edits” and a “checkbox”. The 
first “list box” contains all orbit elements and you select the one intend 
to display. In the other “list box” all objects are listed. You can select 
as many of them as you like by marking them by clicking. The first 2 
“text boxes” are made to enter the borders of the visible y-axis. The 
displayed time interval can be selected by entering values into the other 2 
“text boxes”. Finally the “checkbox” that is labelled “show minor ticks” 
enables additional tick marks in the diagram.

On the other hand you can select to evaluate a scan file. The submenu looks 
quiet different and contains 3 “combo boxes”, 1 “list box”, 5 “text edits”, 
1 “check box” and a button labelled “stable ele.”, which opens the window 
stable elements. You can select the parameters displayed on the y-axis with 
the first 2 “combo boxes” and the “list box”. The first “combo box” contains 
the so called “feature” of an orbit element. These features are listed here:

maximum
minimum
time until maximum
time until minimum
time until greater than a limit
final value

Of course the same list of features is used other parts of the program. The 
next “combo box” gives you the opportunity to select the orbit element and 
with the “list box” you can chose the objects. You can define the borders of 
the visible area of the y-axis with the first 2 “text edits”. The third 
“text edit” is only needed in case you have selected the feature 
“time until greater than a limit”. There you can enter in this case the limit 
value. For the x-axis you must select a parameter that has been variable 
during the scan. This can be done with the third “combo box” and the border 
between the diagram line is displayed can be defined with the last 2 
“text edits”. Finally the “checkbox” remains to be explained, but it has the 
same function as in the case you’ve selected a normal file. 
