habitable zone
--------------------------------------------------


The most interesting area around other stars is the habitable zone. Only 
within a certain distance from the host star a planet can support life 
(with a couple of other fitting parameters) comparable to ours. I’ve 
created this window with the same motivation as for the resonances-window.

The habitable zone window contains 6 “text edits”, 3 buttons and a couple 
of “labels”. The first “text edit” is reserved for the surface temperature 
of the host star in Kelvin. Into the next one you have to enter the radius 
of the star in solar radii. Below this “text edit” there is another one to 
enter the albedo of the planet. The fourth “text edit” is labelled 
“atmosphere factor” and you have to enter there a constant which describes 
the heat storing of the planets atmosphere. Below this “text edit” you can 
find two more of them. Into the first one you have to enter the minimal a
verage surface temperature of the planet and into the other one the maximal 
average surface temperature of the planet. All value in these “text edits” 
(except the last two) are the standards value of Earth and Sun. The average 
surface temperature of is about 288K. The 3 buttons below fulfil the same 
functions as in the previous window. Let’s have a closer look how the 
habitable zone is calculated. In this program I’m using a formula from J. 
Schneider , which I’ve slightly altered:

a[AU]=1/2*Rstar/Rsun*sqrt(1-A)*sqrt(Fatm+1)*Tstar/Tp 

The formula I’ve found didn’t contain the term with Fatm (atmosphere factor) 
and lead for a non-zero albedo to completely wrong results for Earth. So 
I’ve added the atmosphere factor to this formula to get for a planetary 
temperature (Tp) of 288K a distance (a) of 1AU. An atmosphere factor of zero 
describes a planet without atmosphere but at a value of 0.81 it simulates an 
Earth-like atmosphere. The other variables in this formula are radius of Sun 
(Rsun), radius of the host star (Rstar) and the surface temperature of the 
host star (Tstar).
