main menu
------------------------------------


The main menu is the part of the program which controls the integrator. It 
consists of five submenus, the large “calculate”-button and a menu bar. 

There are 8 “text edits” and 3 “radio buttons” in the submenu “objects”. 
With the “radio buttons” you can select if you would like to enter orbit 
elements, heliocentric coordinates or barycentric coordinates. The labels of 
the “text edits” will change automatically. I’m going to following 
abbreviations in the program for the orbit elements (and masses):

abbreviation	full name
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
a		semi-major axis
e		eccentricity
i		inclination
small Omega	argument of perihelion
large Omega	longitude of ascending node
M		mean anomaly
m		mass

You can enter the orbit elements or the coordinates and the mass and name of 
the object you intend to add into the text edits. After this you only have 
to click the button “add” and your object will be displayed in one of the 
two “list boxes”. The upper “list box” is appointed to massive objects and 
in the other only mass less objects will be displayed. Furthermore you can 
remove objects for these “list boxes” by clicking on them and using the 
button “remove” afterwards. In a similar way you can change your input with 
the button “edit”. After clicking on “edit” the data of the selected object 
will be displayed in the “text edits” and you can confirm your changes by 
clicking the “ok”-button. Another submenu is called “main settings”. Into the 
first “text edit” you can enter the length of the calculation. On the 
right-hand side of it there are 3 “radio buttons” to select the unit of the 
calculation length. You can chose between days, years and million years. The 
next “text edit” is labelled with “print step”. The entered value sets the 
intervals in days in which the NLI makes a printout into a file. Beside this 
“text edit” you can find a “checkbox” that is named “automatic”. If you enable 
it by clicking the integrator will make a printout after every internal step. 
Note that this step length is variable. Into the next “text edit” you can enter 
the number of Lie-terms used for the calculation. The default setting of 12 has 
proved as most efficient for the OLI. On the right-hand side of this 
“text edit” there is another one to enter the so called “Log EPS”, which 
corresponds to accuracy. An average value for this is the default setting of 
-11. A setting for low accuracy would be -9 and one for a still reasonable high 
accuracy would be -13. The next 2 “text edits” are made to input the minimal step 
length. Right beside it you can find a “checkbox” and with it, it’s possible to 
enable or disable an abort-function if the step length gets to small. Another 
“text edit” is dedicated to the parameter “swsum”. The next “text edit” is 
labelled as “emax”. There you can enter the maximal allow eccentricity for mass 
less bodies. If the eccentricity gets greater than this value, the object will be 
excluded from the calculation. Furthermore you can find another “text edit” below 
to set the Hill radius criterion. On the right hand-side of these “text edits” 
there are 3 “checkboxes” and one “spin edit”. With these controls you can enable 
and disable printout files for orbit elements, coordinates or backup. The 
“spin edit” gives you the opportunity to set the interval for backups. On the 
bottom of this submenu there is a button to reset all parameters in this submenu 
to default. Now we will focus on the third submenu, which is called “save path for 
results”. The first “text edit” in this submenu has been made to enter the path, 
where you intend to save your results. You can change it either by entering the 
path directly or by using the button below which opens a common Windows 
“save dialog”. In this submenu there are three more “text edits” where you can 
enter the filenames for orbit elements, coordinates and backups. The next submenu 
is labelled as “state of calculation”. You can find two “gauges” there. The first 
one is labelled as “recent calculation” and it indicates the progress of the 
recent calculation. The other gauge only shows overall progress if there is a 
queue of calculations (in the scan mode). The large button that is labelled with 
“calculate” is self-explaining. On the top of the main menu window there is a menu 
bar. With it you can start all the other program features. 
