scans
-----------------------


For many situations it’s very important to investigate several possibilities that 
are only slightly different. For these cases I’ve develop a scan procedure for 
the Lie-Integrator, which can be controlled by the scan window. 

The scan menu consists of 3 submenus and 3 buttons. In the first submenu which is 
labelled “scan mode” you are able to choose between 3 different kinds of scans: 
“mass less testbody”, “massive planet” and “inclination of system”. In the first 
mode there will be a mass less testbody added to system with variable initial 
conditions and in the second mode it’s a massive planet or even star. The third 
mode is completely different from the other two. You can select the inclination of 
a system of exoplanets, so that the masses of the planets are multiplied with a 
factor depending on the angle of view. This feature treats a very up-to-date 
problem with systems of exoplanets discovered with the radial velocity method. The 
next submenu is labelled “path” and contains a “text edit”, where the save path of 
the result files is displayed. You can change it with the button below, which is 
labelled with “location for save files”. You find two more buttons below this one. 
The first one is labelled “calculate” and starts the calculation of the scan 
sequence while the other button is called “close”. The last submenu changes its 
appearance due to the chosen scan mode. 

In the scan mode “inclination of system” this submenu consist of only two 
“text edits” and one “spin edit”. Into the first “text edit” you must enter the 
lowest angle you intend to scan and into the second “text edit” you must enter the 
highest angle for your scan. The “spin edit” has been made to select the resolution: 
how many runs shall be made? Note that only angles greater than 0° and less than or 
equal to 90° are reasonable. An angle of 90° means that you see the system edge on 
and the measured minimal masses are the real masses of the planets. 

If you selected the mode „massive planet“, the submenu will change completely. Now 
it consists of 7 “checkboxes”, 14 “text edits”, 7 “spin edits” and 2 buttons. Each 
“checkbox” enables or disables a variable orbit element or variable mass for the 
additional planet. In the first “text edit” right of a “checkbox” you must enter the 
value you intent to start your scan with. In the next one you shall write the upper 
border of your scan area in this parameter. If the “checkbox” isn’t checked, the 
value in the first “text edit” will be the initial value of this orbit element for 
all runs. Finally on the right edge of this submenu there are the “spin edits”. 
With these controls you change the resolution (number of runs with different initial 
values for this orbit element) of the scan. On the bottom of this submenu you can 
find two buttons. The first one is called “resonances” and opens the resonances 
window, while the other, which is labelled “habitable zone”, displays the habitable 
zone window. If you select the scan mode “mass less testbody”, you will see a very 
similar submenu. There is only one difference: Instead of the possible to select the 
mass of the object, which is of course in this case zero, you will find a “spin edit” 
that is entitled with “objects per run” and a “checkbox” with “all” written on it. 
Because mass less objects don’t influence each other by gravity you can calculate 
more than one object with different initial values per run. This “text edit” gives 
you the opportunity to choose how many you intend to calculate per run. The OLI have 
shown that the optimal number of objects in total per run is between 10 and 20. But 
you can also use the “checkbox” “all” and calculate all mass less testbodies in only 
one run.