stability maps
--------------------------------------------------


A stability map is a very common way to display astrodynamical data of a 
solar system, because it contains as much information as a three 
dimensional diagram. On the both axis you can display different variable 
orbits elements from a scan of a system while another parameter can be 
displayed at each point in a different colour. 

This window contains of 4 submenus, a “paint box” and 4 buttons. The 
first of these buttons is labelled “select file” and with it you can of 
a result file from a scan. The next button draws a stability map with the 
parameter selected in the submenus to the “paint box”. You can save it to 
a bitmap with the third button that is labelled “save stability map”. The 
last button closes this window. Let’s have a look on the submenus. The 
first submenu is entitled with “x-axis” and contains a “combo box” and two 
“text edits”. With the “combo box” you can select a variable orbit element 
you want to display on the axis. The borders of the displayed area can be 
set with the two “text edits”. The next submenu is entitled “y-axis” and 
is completely equal to the previous. Colouration is the title of the 
submenu below these two and it consists of 3 “combo boxes”, 3 “text edits” 
and one image. The 3 “combo boxes” are similar to those in diagram window 
in the “scan file” mode. You can select a feature of an orbit element 
(also selectable) of an object. The only difference is that you have a 
“combo box” instead of a “list box” like in the diagram window. The limit 
value for the feature “time until greater than a limit” can be entered into 
the uppermost “text edit”. The other “text edits” are placed there to enter 
the borders of colouration. Finally there is the image on the bottom of this 
submenu. It is coloured in the same way the stability map is going to be 
coloured. By clicking on it, the window colouration will open where you can 
edit the colouration. The last submenu is labelled “settings” and contains 3 
“combo boxes” and a button that opens the stable elements window. The first 
“combo box” will show additional tick marks on the stability map if it’s 
enabled. To show a legend for the colouration you have to click the second 
“combo box”. The last “combo box” enables an interpolation mode for the 
stability map. With it the map seems to be more elegant but mimics an 
illusory accuracy.
