tables
------------------------------------------


Here you can extracts the data you need from the result files and get it 
displayed in tables, which you can save for further external evaluation. 
In addition to that there is also a function, which can find extreme values 
in the results. Let’s have a look on this window:

You can see 2 submenus and each of them contains 2 “list box” and 4 buttons 
labelled with different arrows. Furthermore there is a long “label” and a 
“spin edit” below them. You can also find 6 buttons and a huge “memo field” 
on this window. The first submenu has been developed to select the orbit 
elements and parameters that you would like to display. By clicking on one 
you can move it into the “chosen” “list box” or back by using one of the 4 
buttons. Their meaning is explained here in Table 2 and this convention is 
also used in other parts of the program:

symbol  meaning
>	move the selected element into the “list box” on the right-hand side
>>	move all elements into the “list box” on the right-hand side
<	move the selected element into the “list box” on the left-hand side
<<	move all elements into the “list box” on the left-hand side

The other submenu works in the same way. The only difference is that you have 
to choose the objects for which you intend to output their elements. The long 
“label” below the first submenu contains the path of the file you have selected 
with the first button that is labelled “select result file”. The “spin edit on 
the right edge of this windows has been place there to chose the number of 
right-of-comma-positions you intend to be shown in the table. By clicking the 
second button in the row the program will display a table due to the selected 
parameters above in the “memo field”. The next two buttons will output a 
labelled list of extreme values of the orbit elements into the “memo field”. 
It is possible to save the content of the “memo field” to a text file with the 
button that is entitled with “save”. Finally the button “close window” does 
that what is written on it.
